##Week 2: Introduction to Ruby
###Intro to the Back End
####Required
What is the difference between front- and back-end development?<br>Front-end development refers to what people see in their browser on the actual webpage.  The languages used in front-end development are typically HTML, CSS, and Javascript.  The individual browser interprets the HTML, CSS, and Javascript code and presents its result as a webpage that people see and interact with.  Back-end development, on the other hand, refers to what an individual website does behind the scenes and is not associated with what users see visually on the webpage.  A back-end typically consists of three components: a server, an application, and a database.  For example, when someone interacts with the front-end development by entering data manually into a webpage, the back-end uses an application to store the information into a database that was created on a server.  Back-end development languages, such as PHP, Ruby, and Python exist and are used differently than front-end languages.  The back-end languages are more robust and more powerful (able to do more things) as well as more efficient.  In addition, back-end development languages often can be enhanced by frameworks, such as Ruby on Rails or Cake PHP that aid in the development and collaboration processes used by back-end developers.  To summarize, front-end development is used to create what someone sees visually and interacts with on a webpage; whereas back-end development is the brain which, although not seen visually or interacted with directly by website visitors, drives the webpage and determines how it functions and operates.<br><br>
Why do you need to install Ruby but not HTML/CSS?<br>Ruby needs to be installed because it is a back-end development language.  Ruby files cannot be interpreted by a web browser; a separate interpreter is required to produce useful results with Ruby files and to determine whether or not they are functioning properly.  HTML and CSS do not need to be installed because they are front-end development languages that are read and interpreted by a web browser itself.  As such, a separate interpreter is not needed to decode and run HTML/CSS files; any web browser should be sufficient to handle these files.<br><br>

Read the [intro to back end on the Odin Project](http://www.theodinproject.com/web-development-101/introduction-to-the-back-end) description, and the [What is: Back-end web development](http://blog.generalassemb.ly/what-is-back-end-web-development/) blog post.

Sign Up for Cloud9 and create a basic Rails project.<br>I signed up for Cloud9 on January 28, 2015 and created a basic Rails project on February 9, 2015.<br>

###Intro to Ruby
####Required

What is an "interpreted" language?<br>An interpreted language is one which does not require the use of a compiler to evaluate the source code and tranfrom it into machine-readable code before executing.  That is, an interpreted language is one which can be run directly from the source code and executed directly by the interpreter itself.<br><br>
What is IRB?<br>An IRB in an Interactive Ruby Shell, which is a program designed as a Read-Evaluate-Print-Loop (REPL) which is an interactive way to test Ruby programs and can be helpful in the debugging process.  The IRB can be launched from the command line and allows for the evaluation of Ruby commands with immediate response, experimenting in real-time (hence the 'interactive' aspect).<br><br>
What are Objects?<br>Simply put, objects in Ruby are just data structures.  More formally, they are instances of classes; that is, objects are structures that are created by calling the appropriate class in Ruby.  Nearly everything we create in Ruby in an object (hence the designation of Ruby as an 'object-oriented' programming language).<br><br>
What are Methods?<br>In Ruby, methods can be thought of as "skills" that objects have; that is, methods are built-in abilities used to modify objects.  More formally, a method is a reusable section of code written to perform a specific task in a program.  In addition to having many built-in methods, Ruby allows for users to define their own methods as well.  Methods consist of a header ('def' keyword, name of method, arguments), the body (block of code describing the procedures to be carried out by the method), and are concluded with the 'end' keyword.<br><br>
What are Classes?<br>Classes are collections of code that are used to create objects.  Many classes are included automatically when Ruby is installed (i.e., written by third-party programmers) but Ruby users can and do construct their own classes and write the code to accomplish what is needed for a given task.<br><br>
What are Blocks?<br>The simplest explanation for a block in Ruby is just a bit of code that can be executed.  More elaborately, a block is a chunk of code that operates within a control statement, loop, method definition, or method call. A block returns the value of its last line. Blocks can be created in Ruby by enclosing the code with braces or using a do/end statement.<br><br> 
What is an Array?<br>In Ruby, an array is a data type that holds an ordered collection of values.  The values in this case case be any type of object, even including other arrays (in the latter case we would consider the array to be "multi-dimensional").  Array values are associated with an index, where the first value in the array has the index zero; and the last value in an n-element array has the index (n-1).<br><br>
What is an Iterator?<br>An iterator in Ruby is simply a method that repeatedly invokes a block of code.  Iterators are commonplace in loops, where a given task is to be carried out (i.e., iterated) a certain number of times or until a certain condition is met (i.e., number of desired iterations has been reached.)<br><br>
What are hashes?<br>Hashes in ruby are collections of key-value pairs.  Instead of an index (as is used in an array), hashes use keys amd each key is assigned a corresponding value.  Within a given hash, the keys are unique; that is, each hash can use an individual key only once.  However, the values need not be unique; that is, whereas a given hash  can only use a key once, a value can be repeated as often as necessary.<br><br>
What is a library?<br>A library in Ruby is a collection of source code used to accomplish tasks, many of which are commonplace in programming and others which may be less-often used.  They are useful to programmers because one may use files from a library to do what they need to get done rather than having to write the code themselves.  Most libraries are released in the form of a gem (also see next question) which themselves are governed by the package manager RubyGems.<br>  
What is a gem?<br>A gem in Ruby is a self-contained structure that is used to distribute libraries and programs within the language.  From the command line, 'gem' can be used to install and manage gems.  An individual gem is an instance of the package manager RubyGems.<br>

Do the challenges at http://tryruby.org/levels/1/challenges/0.

Do the RubyMonk “Ruby Primer” course: http://rubymonk.com/learning/books/1<br>I did not particularly care for the RubyMonk course and chose to complete the Ruby tutorial on CodeAcademy instead.  Here is a link to my CodeAcademy profile:<br>http://www.codecademy.com/albatross7817<br>

###Weekly Project
You need to complete all the problems on the RubyMonk ([starting with this one](http://rubymonk.com/learning/books/1-ruby-primer/problems/9-calculator)) and upload them to your deliverables Github Repo in the RubyMonk folder. If you get stuck, refer to the GitHub information in the [Odin project’s walkthrough](http://www.theodinproject.com/web-development-101/html-css).

Put each problem solution into the appropriate file in `ruby_monk_problems`

####Optional & Resources
 - Read and complete the [Ruby in 100 minutes guide](http://tutorials.jumpstartlab.com/projects/ruby\_in\_100_minutes.html)
 - [Ruby beginners guide](https://hackhands.com/beginners-guide-ruby/)
 - Do the first Ruby exercise (Bob) on [Exercism.io](http://exercism.io/) and respond to any
   feedback you receieve.  Provide a link to your submission on
   Exercism.

